Friends here our concept is how to implement Python B23 escapes using resource object.
So in our previous video we have seen about client object.
And here we're working with resource object.
And one more important point is
resource object is available only for some of those services.
We already saw a boat that info find.
No, let me open my sublime text.
So first I'm going to import Bhutto three.
So here I'm going to create a custom solution.
I don't want to work with the default session as of now.
So let me create my custom session or
AWS management console session object equals to simply,
we'll do three door Ce Shen dot session.
Then this simply provide your profile name as root.
So I am taking Profile Name as rude or I'm working with the root credentials,
or I'm creating AWS management console using
root credentials because I want to work with multiple services in this script.
Now let me create my IAM console,
foster using resource object.
So simply you are analysed management console from
that jihad to enter into what I am console.
But we enter into your I am console here we are following a resource object method.
So simply provide your service name equals 2m and also provide some region Nim.
As us. He's one.
Let me create two more consols.
I mean, EC2 and S3.
So simply this is S3 console and this is easy to console.
So let me modify here EC2 Console using resource,
and here S3 console using resource object.
Fine.
We held three consoles in our hand.
Now what is your requirement?
Suppose, let me take same requirement as our previous list,
all IAM users using your resource object of your IAM.
Then how we can implement the what next step.
So the first thing is just to open your official documentation of Bhutto three.
And here go with your available services.
So as of now we are working with IAM.
So I'm going to take,
I am in this, I am first,
let me open client object C.
Under client, you are all available.
Operations are available as a one set.
C, They're all operations are there under one set.
But now let me open for IAM resource object C,
service resources, the resource opposite.
And in this resource object,
so I am object,
I am console that has been created with the name called Le Yang.
But these two steps we'd done in terms
of three because we are working with customer object.
So both Audrey, your idlis management console, you work.
I am console using resource object.
So I am console resource object is same as here.
I am in this documentation.
That's fine.
And we love that if you observe operations are available as three sets.
Set, second set, and then third set.
Not only for IAM.
Whatever the services you are having your in-situ,
you are having your resource object in
that all operations are available in terms of three sets.
So suppose I am going to open EC2 resource object.
Even in UC two resource object also you
how your operations in terms of three sets for set,
second set, and then third set.
But it is very easy to classify them.
The simple thing is, first,
cities always abode to create or modify
the existing thing if you want to create new IAM user,
new group, our policy,
our role user, then you have to select your operation from this list.
Are if you want to modify the existing things,
then you have to select your operation from this list.
Not only here, even Institute if you go here,
I want to create a new EC2 instance.
I want to create volume,
I want create VPC,
then you ought to go and such in the first list.
Fine.
Now, the second thing is if you want to walk with existing EC2 to instance,
particular single EC2 instance,
or if you want to work with existing.
Where is this?
This is a boat.
I am right? Yeah.
See, even I am.
Suppose if you want to work with particular IAM user or group or role,
then you have to select your operation from the second set.
Suppose even if you go with ins three, let me open that.
Not only has three can take any of your AWS service.
Yes, I'm taking examples from here.
S3 resource.
Even for this also you have three sets.
C, I want to create a bucket,
then go with first set.
I want to work with the existing bucket,
not buckets, only one single thing.
Then go with the second set of operations.
Alright, then what about thoughts it?
If you want to see the existing things as a group,
then you have to go with third set of operations I shall.
These are called collections.
So we're going to discuss collections in detail.
But as of now just I am giving a basic information.
Collections.
Collect all the interesting things, all, all.
So then you have to go with collect collections,
our third set of operations, let's see.
I want to see all I am users then go with the lost.
Is this for I am know EC2.
Yeah, this is for I am break.
I want to see all users.
I am users then go and set up your users operation from here.
Suppose I want to see all EC2 instances, right?
Is this Fourier C2? Yeah, now select instances from here, from third set.
I want to see all buckets.
Anyway for your buckets or resource of that you have only one operation in the third set.
That's it. See that?
So let me take response.
You can take any variable just I am taking response from official documentation.
I am console resource object dot.
I want to see all users.
That's it. Then what is the next step?
Just click here.
Where is the IAM user?
Users. Under users, again, you how?
Some different operations methods,
all filter, limit page size.
Okay?
As of now, as of now,
I am going to work with all a 100 and some limit c. After performing the users,
you need to do one more dot operation that is either all odd or limit.
Limit is useful to see some limit number,
limited number of users or limited number of instances,
or limited number of buckets are limited number of RDS instances.
Right?
So first let me do one thing.
So here in undertake response actually,
but let me do one thing that Italy,
I'm printing your IAM console dot user
and see the output C.
They're getting some object.
Anyway.
On this object, what is the operation or what are the operations are available?
You can see directly from here, under users,
you know, otherwise, you know,
in Python you how BAR operation.
By using this also,
you can see you weren't operations here.
All filter, iterator, limit, size pages.
Suppose now I want to apply on just after the output.
I am console dot users, dot-dot-dot all.
Actually, Ali's a method.
You are getting something here, right?
It is a meter.
Then do one thing, used parenthesis.
That's it. Right?
Now, this object consists of all your IAM useless information.
But you're getting US object or as output.
Right?
Now see all creates an iterable of all users resources in their collection.
This is collection of all I am users.
It is an iterable or iterator.
You can simply iterate them.
See that for each item in that is iterable item,
you can take for loop to iterate one-by-one,
then simply print each item.
Let me save it and run it and see the output.
So you are getting two objects.
Again, these two are objects.
But I want to see only easy to dollar per name,
then you don't know what is the operations are available on this item,
then use DIR operation.
See the output. So on each item you how this many number of operations.
Suppose if you want to see user ID or user name,
our path, or tags, or what is that?
Password last use policies.
All these things are available on this each item.
So as of now,
I need only username.
I mean, you are IAM user name,
so simply take a swim name,
then run it and see the output.
So in sublime text to run your Python script,
you can use control plus b.
Or else.
Go to your command line and simply run python help on this object.
That's it.
So if you are good at sublime text,
then it's better to use a control B here,
or just implementing what Python's could be using.
Sublime text and Romney was kept from command line.
That's fine.
So this is the way how to work with IAM user using your resource.
Now let me comment this.
Yeah, one more thing. I want to explain.
One more operation in shut off all.
Suppose if I take limit,
I'm taking limit for one user to users.
That's why just I'm taking for one user, see the output.
You're going to get only one user.
So the way, whatever the order you how anywhere I am console in that order,
it will get from top to down one by one.
If I take two, you have only two users anyway.
You're going to get those two.
That's OK. Actually these are collections.
So we'll discuss about collections in detail.
But here I want to show you the help for your resource.
Now let me list S3 buckets.
You can go with EC2 or S3. Yes, I am taking a three.
You just try with these YouTube.
Now already how your S3 console in your hand.
Then? Gotye were documentation foster S3 buckets.
We created already our S3 console resource object.
This S3 is already there with or a hand.
Then we need all existing information.
That's what you have to go with the third set.
Thoughts, it buckets.
In buckets I anyhow,
all filter limit, page size, that's it.
So these are the different methods in collections in your buckets.
So simply see what I'm doing.
And one more thing, this collections, right,
is again, it iterates war and manipulate group of resources.
Then for each item in your S3 console, dot,
bucket, dot all, I want to collect all buckets,
then print you are each item and see the output.
So this many buckets I have,
but this is an object.
Each and everything is opposite in your resource.
Only the last, the final output accepted that each and everything is object.
Right? Now. I don't know what are the operations are available on this then.
So this is all you are getting your S3 buckets,
all that, all S3 buckets dot all is an iterator.
We use that iterator to take one by one.
But again, this is also, sorry,
this is a object on this object,
just USDA OR operation and see the result.
So I'm going to use for only one.
That's why I'm using Greek so that you can get clarity for one item.
I'm seeing all the operations.
These many operations are there on this object.
But as of now I need only you were bucket name.
So simply take nim.
So let me do one thing.
So you are each item dot name, that's it.
Let me save it and run it.
Sorry. Oh, we usually break.
Let me remove that break so that it will create for each and every bucket.
Nazi.
So even here also, you cannot play limit.
I wonder limit.
I wanted to get only top ten buckets.
Okay, and later IT That's a c.
I, I'm getting only top ten buckets.
That's it.
So you just try with the Easy To Do list all your EC2 instances.
Okay?
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.